# Podcast Script

## Introduction 
* This is the Hello Hokie Podcast, and I’m your host Cy Webb. This is our very first episode, and I could not be more excited to get things started. But before I get going, I’d just like to say, Congratulations on becoming a member of the Hokie family! In no time you will understand what a special community you are entering into. Today though, we’re going to be talking about the T-shaped student. Over the next four years you will frequently hear mention of the T-shaped student, and on this inaugural podcast episode, we’ll explore what goes into the development of a T-shaped student, look at how it applies to a particular career path, and examine how the concept of the T-shaped student is preparing people for the 21st century. Let’s get started. 

## Section 1: The T-Shaped Student Description 
* The T-shaped student. Inevitably, when someone brings up the concept it is quickly followed by a list of questions. Why do I need to know what the T-shaped student is? What traits add up to make a T-shaped student? What is it? Let’s dive in. 
* First a basic definition. Tsummit.org describes T-shaped students as learners that are, “Characterized by their deep disciplinary knowledge in at least one area, an understanding of systems, and their ability to function as ‘adaptive innovators’ and cross the boundaries between disciplines.”
* So, what exactly does this mean? Well, at its essence, the T-shaped student consists of two major components, the vertical and the horizontal.
* The two main aspects of the vertical component of the T-Shaped student stress the development of a student’s deep understanding of a particular discipline, what we often think of as one’s major, and the development of a student’s deep understanding of a particular organizational system, such as the healthcare, education, or financial system. 
* The first vertical component of the T-shaped student consists of mastery over a particular discipline. Tsummit states that the T-shaped student must be, “Deep in at least one discipline.” This means that the T-shaped student is able to specialize in one particular area of study, and is attempting to achieve mastery over their designated major of study. For instance, say that a student wants to be an English teacher, the T-shaped learner interested in this field of study would specialize in the study of the discipline of the English language. 
* The second vertical component of the T-shaped student consists of mastery over a particular organizational system. According to Tsummit, the T-shaped student must also simultaneously be, “Deep in at least one system.” This means that the T-shaped student is able to achieve a degree of understanding in regards to a particular system or field of interest. Let’s go back to the example of the student that wants to be an English teacher. In this instance they would have a deep understanding of not just the English language, but also the inner workings of the US education system. 
* The horizontal component of the T-shaped student stresses three main areas of development according to Tsummit. First that the T-shaped learner has a degree of understanding of “many disciplines.” Second that the T-shaped learner has a degree of understanding of “many systems.” And third, and most importantly, that the T-shaped learner is able to develop, “boundary crossing competencies.” This is the crucial part of the horizontal component of the T-shaped student. T-shaped students have to be able to develop the critical and analytical skills necessary to move between systems and disciplines with relative fluidity. When you think of the horizontal aspect of the T-shaped student, think of liberal arts and general education requirements. The classes that you will take outside of your major discipline of study prepare you to be able to move fluidly between a variety of different disciplines outside of your major that you don’t specialize in. 
* In conclusion the breakdown of the T-shaped student is not all that complicated. Vertically, the T-shaped student has a degree of mastery over a specific discipline of study and organizational system. Horizontally, the T-shaped student is flexible and able to understand a plethora of different disciplines and systems while also having a well-rounded skill set that is easily applicable to the outside, the modern global world. 

## Section 2: The T-Shaped Student Real Life Example
* Now I’m guessing that you are probably wondering, what does the T-shaped student have to do with me? You’re probably thinking, all of this nonsense doesn’t apply to me or my career of interest? Well I’m here to tell you that it does, and I’m going to use myself as an example.
* I want to be a writer. I have a dream of being an author, and according to Malcolm Gladwell, artists and authors generally follow one of two paths. The first is the path of natural talent, in which a painter paints his masterpiece at a young age and is struck with a burst of magnificent inspiration in the span of a moment. The second is the path of cultivated talent, in which the artist hones his craft and painstakingly works and reworks his masterpiece over years. You have your Pablo Picasso’s, young prodigies that achieved fame at a young age, and you have your Vincent Van Gogh’s, the one’s that had to labor before reaching their high position of fame. 
* It is with the Vincent Van Gogh’s where the T-shaped student comes into the equation. Unless you’re one of the lucky few gifted artists that is seemingly struck in the moment by a burst of inspirational lightning you need to hone your craft. First you need to try and master the discipline of the English language. No matter how gifted you are as a writer, if you don’t have a grasp on the history of literature, or receive the tutoring necessary to hone your talent as a writer you will falter in your development. For every William Faulkner, there are hundreds of writers that failed to realize their potential because they lacked the core foundation necessary to cultivate success.
* Secondly, as a writer, you need to understand the larger system of art publication. If you write an incredible novel but lack the connections necessary to publish it then all your work is more or less for not. You need to understand the greater writing industry that you are stepping into before you can progress to achieve your dream. It is through connections with your professors in college that you can establish the necessary links with publishers to further your career. 
* While the vertical aspects of the T-shaped student are important to your development as a successful writer, the horizontal aspect is far more important to your future success. A writer HAS to be able to cross boundaries, and have an understanding of other disciplines and systems. Close your eyes for a moment. When you think of a writer, what do you picture?
* PAUSE
* I picture a man trying to understand what is happening around him, trying to grasp the complexities of a world that he does not know and capture emotions that are not his. You can only do this if you are able to understand others. If you can’t understand the high school teacher then you can’t understand her gripes with the education system, and if you can’t understand the inefficiency of the education system then you can’t understand the relationship between the government and the citizens, and if you can’t understand the government, can you really understand it’s citizens?
* It’s a vicious circle, but a circle that a writer must be able to grasp. You are writing about people, and in the connected society that we live in an ability to understand is the greatest skill one can have. That is where college comes in, it teaches us understanding. All of the general education classes you take provide you with a base from which to grow as a student of the world. 

## Section 3: The 21st Century T-Shaped Student 
* Being a successful, well, anything, in the 21st century revolves around being a talented self-promoter. Having an ability to create “buzz” across the Internet in a myriad of unique ways is one of the most important traits to have in this modern world of interconnectivity. This ability to create interest within and throughout a variety of different sub-cultures lies at the heart of the T-shaped student. 
* Let’s go back to my example of the T-shaped author. In order for me to become a successful writer I would need to be able to appeal to a wide range of people. I would need to be able to successfully market a book in a fast moving digital world. How would I go about doing this? Snapchat book reviews. Imagine a snap chat channel that compiles short ten second bits of clips about a particular book, adds in short reaction videos from readers, as well as extremely short book readings. This idea of snap chat book marketing is such a T-shaped idea. I would be stressing a particular discipline, writing, appealing to a select organization of people, readers of literature, and would also be reaching out to a broader audience through the use of snap chat. It’s a pointed idea that aims to reach a wide audience. That is the T-shaped student in the 21st century, a person with a pointed focus that is able to reach a wider range of people.  

## Conclusion
* Thank you all so much for listening to this inaugural episode of the Hello Hokie podcast. I hope now that you all have a better understanding of the T-shaped student and can grasp how it is important to any career as we move into the 21st century. I’m your host Cy Webb and I’ll see you next week. 
